# Processing of order 1868 (MiSeq 2X250) 12/08/22

## Preparation of Libraries

- Libraries prepared using standard 16S amplicon library preparation protocol

  - Follow protocol from [Earth Microbiome Project] (https://earthmicrobiome.org/protocols-and-standards/16s/) with reaction volumes cut in half

- Library Concentration by Qubit:
    1. Plate 1 pool: 22.3ng/ul
    2. Plate 2 pool: 8.00ng/ul

- Size determined on Bioanalyzer 400bp for each library pool.

- Library Dilution
    Libraries were diluted 1:22 and 1:8 for plate 1 and plate 2, respectively, to get to a final concentration of 4nM.
      - Concentration for plate 1 dilution measured at 0.774ng/ul or a molar concentration of 2.9nM.
      - Concentration for plate 2 dilution measured at 0.862ng/ul or a molar concentration of 3.3nM.
      `concentrations were off somewhat possibly initial Qubit measurement of the library plate pools was incorrect`.

    Diluted library plate pools were combined at a ratio of 10ul plate 1 + 5ul plate2.  Concentration as measured on Qubit was 0.810ng/ul or 3nM.  The final pool was diluted to 2nm by adding 7ul of EB buffer to the final pool.  Concentration of the final pool was confirmed to be 2nM on the Qubit.

## Sequencing of libraries on the Illumina MiSeq

- Initial MiSeq set up
    - The MiSeq flowcell was cleaned and inserted into the sequencer.
    - The running buffer and empty waste container were put on the instrument.
    - Add 3.5ul 100nM R1, I1, and R2 16S custom sequencing primers to positions 12, 13, and 14 respectively. (Pierce foil of positions 12, 13, and 14 prior to adding primers).

- Preparation of the sequencing sample
    1. The library pool was denatured by mixing 10ul of 0.2N NaOH and 10ul of library pool and incubating at RT for 10 minutes.
    2. Denaturation was stopped by adding 980ul of cold HT1 buffer.  Concentration of denatured library pool at this point is 20pM.
    3. 16S amplicon libraries are typically loaded at 4pM to dilute the library to 4pM and add the approptiate amount of phiX control The following mix was prepared in a new tube; 106ul denatured library pool, 110ul denatured PhiX library, and 384ul HT1.  Library concentration approximately 4pM.
    `We typically add 96ul of the denatured library, however, recent runs have been on the light side, so I wanted to see if adding more would help`
    4. 600ul of the mixture in step 3 was added to the sample position in the reagent cartridge.  (Pierce foil with 1000ul pipette tip prior to adding library mix).
    5. Install sample tray on the MiSeq and shut door.

- Finish MiSeq setup.
